If you show up at the palace
as Gil-dong, you're dead!
Must you really go?
Then I'm coming with you.
Deok-jung.
I'm coming with you too.
I'm joining too.
May I…
May I join you as well?
- Me too.
- I want to join you too.
- I'll join as well.
- Me too!
- I want to join you too!
- I'm coming too!
I have somewhere to go first.
The king is addicted to a toxic herb?
Yes, Lady Sukeui.
Please share this with the ministers
and bring them together,
and post the notices far and wide.
Everyone in this land must know.
I will muster our troops.
They won't reach the capital
until tomorrow,
so we'll wait until…
You must go, I see.
It will be fine.
Because we're not alone.
This is going to be an intense night.
I'll see you in the new Joseon.
Gil-dong came.
He's bound to die, but he came anyway.
He's not so bright, after all.
Why throw your life away for some widow?
He even stole rice for her.
Everything she had was stolen,
and she was too starved
to nurse her child.
I feel so bad for her.
If those feelings are a crime,
they should arrest me as well.
Then they should arrest me as well.
Me too.
- Me too.
We can't do what Gil-dong does,
but at least we can show our support.
- Of course.
- Yes.
I never deserved the name, Gil-dong,
much less the name of righteous thief.
I'm sorry.
Of course you can't take medicine
on an empty stomach.
I was just a nosy physician,
nothing more, nothing less.
You're far more peculiar than I thought.
But if weren't for Gil-dong,
I wouldn't have met him.
From now on,
stay within my expectations.
Just stay within
what I can handle.
The Grand Prince
shielded my thievery,
and fought for the things
that I wanted to protect
on my behalf.
And meanwhile,
while I was in his body,
I came to bear
another purpose in my heart.
Treason.
- Is this true?
- This is unbelievable!
What are we to do?
Hence,
the rebellion.
And I told myself I would not hesitate
when this moment came.
What about me?
What can I do
if you're not there tomorrow?
But why am I thinking about that time now?
Let's run away.
Once you're caught as a traitor,
you'll be torn limb from limb.
I'm prepared for that.
Why am I seeing
your disheartened face now?
How could you
speak of your death so lightly
in front of me?
Only now does the look in his eyes
break my heart.
What am I to do?
Hong Eun-jo, I…
I know.
I…
If I live to see tomorrow…
I should go.
I will see you again.
…I will make sure to say
what I held back today.
I'll lure them out of the alley.
The old me would have listened to you.
But now,
those words carry no weight with me.
I will not run away anymore.
One.
Two…
You must be here to see me.
Aren't you Min-jik's…
Why are the two of you here?
I was on my way to Your Majesty
to deliver something meant for you.
Something meant for me?
I'm talking about Yeonsukhwa.
What is that?
You didn't even know what it was called?
Your Majesty!
- What's wrong?
- We should go to that alley.
- Gil-dong is--
- Chase him!
Gil-dong is caught.
Where's Gil-dong?
We're looking for him, Your Majesty.
What happened?
We're trying to figure it out.
Please stop this.
Hong Eun-jo.
What is
all this?
Baekjeong masks?
That's right.
Baekjeong masks are hanging
all over the crossroads in the market.
What does that mean?
Are they showing support for Gil-dong?
It's too early to cry.
This movement is spreading
across the capital.
How is this…
Find everyone
who has hung the Baekjeong masks
and kill them all!
All of them, Your Majesty?
They're innocent people.
Anyone who claims to be Gil-dong
is Gil-dong.
Your Majesty.
Here's the notice Gil-dong wrote.
Read it.
I dare not read…
"The king was deceived by a flatterer
and took poison."
How insolent!
"He ended up a madman."
Yeonsukhwa is
the name of the toxic herb
planted in your body.
Do you realize
you're in a state of madness?
It's here.
Chase the tiger!
He's hallucinating.
If we let His Majesty
roam the streets like this,
he will hunt the people.
Lure His Majesty through the quiet alleys
and then into the palace.
Drive him west, and follow the wall north.
Pass by Mount Inwang and Mount Baegak,
and enter through Sinmumun Gate.
Follow His Highness' command!
Yes, sir!
I'll come with you.
Jae-i!
Were any of the Gil-dongs caught?
How are we supposed to catch them?
They're all over the place.
I see.
You…
You haven't seen it, have you?
I haven't seen what?
Is this related to the bedchamber matter?
I will await His Majesty's order.
Find out where my father is right now.
You should confess now.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Do you have evidence?
Yes.
Here's the evidence,
and the witness.
You look great.
If this is the evidence,
it must be
the poisonous herb the king took.
And where's the witness?
Lady Jang here
will testify to everything--
A lowborn can't be a witness.
She's an animal.
All of this was that animal's scheme.
You're the Left State Councilor
of this realm,
and you're shifting the blame
onto a woman.
Have you no shame as a man?
The ministers will decide
whether she can be a witness or not.
Have you forgotten?
The ministers in the main hall
were handpicked by me.
They are an extension of me.
The extensions of a flatterer.
Responsibility means nothing to them.
Those shameless men
always put their own gain first.
The fate of this realm is at stake.
We must make a decision.
It's too early.
If it goes wrong, we'll be traitors.
I agree. We must be cautious.
It's not like the Left State Councilor
admitted the existence of the toxic herb.
How could you…
It doesn't seem easy
to convince the ministers.
I wouldn't expect Im Sa-hyeong's puppets
to care about purpose.
Did you expect this?
We have the cause on our side.
And the troops?
They'll arrive in the morning
at the earliest.
The gatekeeper we paid
will open the gate for them.
Tell them to head straight to the palace
and take the king's head.
If necessary, have the ministers
killed as well to leave no loose ends.
Gil-dong and the Grand Prince
will not want any bloodshed.
At worst, it can put
the people in the market at risk--
A bloodless overthrow does not exist.
No throne was ever won without bloodshed.
The bloodstains will fade
when a new sun rises.
To the palace!
Let us join too.
I thought you were recovering.
I'm fine.
We can't miss Gil-dong's historic moment.
Let's go!
- Let's go!
Where are the other court ladies?
We've sent them all out of the palace,
saying it's for health reasons.
Good.
You may leave now, Your Majesty.
Why is there only one palanquin?
No.
I will stay in the palace as well.
If what's written in the notice is true,
we don't know what the king's madness
might drive him to do.
You must protect the Crown Prince.
Your Majesty.
A mother must protect her child.
I'm staying to protect my child as well.
You should make haste.
Please
stay safe tonight.
It's the tiger, Your Majesty!
It's this way, Your Majesty!
Your Majesty! It's here!
This way!
That way!
It went this way!
It's the tiger, Your Majesty!
This way!
Open the gate!
When did I get to the palace?
Did you lure me here?
Guards!
Drag the Grand Prince out!
Where did you hide my soldiers?
Of course.
You're after my throne.
I should have seen your true colors
back in the Gyeongo year.
Mother!
Mother.
Now, who wishes to follow my father
into death?
Please stop this.
Will you die in their stead?
Can you handle the consequences?
The prince is unwell,
and you killed the last royal heir,
threatening the succession.
It will give the sidelined officials
the perfect pretext
to overthrow the throne.
How dare you?
You told me not to shine,
so I stayed in the shadows.
You told me to live hidden from the world,
so I always kept to myself.
Please let me live that way.
Please don't harm anyone
so I don't have to do anything.
That night,
I should have picked up that sword.
I should have
cut you down with that sword.
Traitor!
Must I really run my own brother through?
How dare you?
What you're seeing is not real.
Then…
what is that?
Look closely.
It doesn't look like a tiger.
No.
You're wrong.
That can't be true.
It can't be true.
Are you saying
I have been chasing
an illusion?
No, your vanity.
Do you know
why you came to be like this?
It's because Your Majesty
abandoned your duty.
My duty?
Your Majesty,
more than anyone else in this realm,
you should have taken pity on your people.
They are your people, Your Majesty.
Please take pity on them.
That is
the weight the throne carries
and demands.
Punishing them based solely on the appeal
would bring great misfortune
upon Your Majesty in the future.
If my father offered advice
that was hard to hear,
it would have been meant for nothing else
but Your Majesty's own good.
Please remember the sincerity
with which he came before Your Majesty,
risking his own life.
You're right.
Hong Min-jik…
Min-jik is back!
It must be a royal command.
All right.
Go on. Speak.
There is no royal command.
Write this down.
I, Im Jae-i, the second son
of Im Sa-hyeong, confess
that I procured the poisonous herbs
on my father's orders.
That is not true.
Arrest me.
Since this is the word
of the noble Left State Councilor's son,
I suppose no further witnesses are needed.
- Throw him in jail.
- Yes, sir.
Let go of me!
- It's all over now.
- How dare you?
I must see His Majesty!
I will go to his residence at once!
What will happen now?
Look.
The sun is rising.
Yeol is already back from the villa?
Where is he? Tell me now.
Are you all right?
Yes, Mother.
Where's your usual jokes?
Where's your usual sneaky smile?
I must have worn
your heart thin with worry,
like these socks.
Mother,
it looks like I should stop idling about.
The king has abdicated!
ABDICATE: TO RENOUNCE ONE'S THRONE
We did it without bloodshed!
And our troops haven't even arrived yet!
I can't believe this.
I was wrong.
Gil-dong and the Grand Prince were right.
Eun-jo!
Lady Hae-rim?
Eun-jo.
- Eun-jo.
- Physician Hong.
- That's right.
I'm here too.
- Physician Hong.
- Eun-jo.
- It's Physician Hong.
- Physician Hong
- Eun-jo.
- Physician Hong.
How did you all…
Look.
The sun is finally rising.
His Majesty enters!
Remember a king's duties at every step.
A king must take every step
toward his people.
I shall bear it in mind, Mother.
Four deep bows!
One!
Two!
Three!
Four!
In recent years,
Joseon has been plunged into turmoil
by the sycophantic minister Im Sa-hyeong
and a tyrannical king.
This is because I,
along with the officials gathered here,
have failed to act upon their crimes.
However,
one person took pity on the people
amid this turmoil.
It's Gil-dong.
As of today,
all those implicated in Gil-dong's case
will be pardoned.
But Your Majesty, Gil-dong is a thief--
Anyone who belittles him
as a mere thief
or slanders his devotion to the people
shall be deemed a traitor
who harms the moral order of Joseon.
Answer me.
Yes, Your Majesty!
Eun-jo!
- Mother! Young Master!
- Eun-jo.
- Young Master, be careful…
Young Master, catch your breath first.
That's not important right now.
Brace yourself.
What is it?
I heard this on my way here.
The king
has been changed.
Madam, she's so shocked
she can't even speak.
- Now, brace yourself again.
- What is it this time?
The new king is
Grand Prince Dowol.
My heart almost jumped
out of my chest to hear this.
Then put it back.
What's with this reaction?
It's almost dinner time.
Let's talk at home.
All right.
By the way,
did you sort out the mess you made?
It sounds like I did.
- What?
- Mother.
Wait up.
Yesterday, the Section Chief
of the Ministry of Personnel told me
that His Majesty
is always in the main hall.
A military officer told me that he said,
"The ministers who've been all talk
and wasting their stipends
shall now work like horses."
That's what His Majesty said.
All officials senior third rank and above
have to work day and night.
That explains it.
That's why I haven't seen
any high-ranking officials
at our courtesan house lately.
It's all thanks to His Majesty.
Don't you realize losing customers
means losing your pay?
Since when were you so interested
in the state affairs?
No-eul.
Does taking an interest in the king
mean I'm a loyal subject?
Dream on.
His Majesty already has someone
in his heart.
You may have confessed,
but you conspired with Im Sa-hyeong
to plunge Joseon into turmoil.
I said there should be no leniency
for such a grave crime.
The new king has
such a loyal subject.
I'm leaving tomorrow.
This will be our last time.
You can at least say goodbye
to the woman you once cared for,
if only briefly.
All I see before me is a criminal.
Accept the punishment you deserve.
Thanks for everything.
You're leaving again without hearing this.
Kim Seung-baek, that cold bastard.
You're out now,
and he didn't even show up.
He knows he has nothing to gain from you.
I know how to live
as the son of a fallen house.
Wherever you go,
just think you're an uninvited guest.
Then you can endure anything.
Is that a comfort?
Is it not comforting?
Hong Eun-jo said I should comfort you.
Go tell her
that I look fine.
And tell her I smiled too.
Why did you abandon it?
I have never truly owned
anything you gave me.
Without what I gave you, you are nobody.
I'm not sure.
I hear
everyone's precious.
It sounds absurd,
but I would like to believe that.
Those words…
Who told you that?
Someone who made me abandon everything.
These are spare clothes
for your journey to exile.
I wish you a safe trip.
My death as Gil-dong…
The people.
The name you should fear.
You're a woman.
I cared for a woman…
I have no regrets,
even if I cannot live a woman's life.
It's you.
This bitch…
As Your Majesty ordered,
the land taken for the hunting grounds
has been returned
to the people of Chungcheong,
and all losses have been compensated.
Well done.
What is Your Majesty reading?
At the royal lecture tomorrow,
I will discuss
the malpractices of provincial officials.
You haven't slept
since the accession, Your Majesty.
When the king is at ease,
the people bear the burden.
You may go home now.
Your Majesty!
Your Majesty.
Are you still working?
I just need to prepare
the herbs for tomorrow, then I'm done.
You look so calm, as if nothing happened.
Whenever I think about that day,
my heart still races.
How can you be so calm after all that?
It's in the past now,
so I must return to my duties.
I've never been so at peace
as I am these days.
Now, I don't need to be a thief.
What's with that look?
To tell you the truth,
when you said
your souls had been switched,
I was confused.
I wasn't sure if my feelings
were for you or His Majesty.
But I found the answer today.
It's Gil-dong.
What?
You came early today.
Give it to me. You should head back soon.
Today, you will come with me
to the palace.
Oh, dear! Finally!
Oh, wait.
She needs to stop by somewhere first.
Why do I have to stop by here?
What brings you two here?
Eun-jo is going to the palace.
You all know what it means, right?
Come on, girls.
We're closing for tonight.
What?
Stop fussing. It's just a nosebleed.
At this rate, you'll get seriously ill.
Please let the physician in.
The royal physician
can't treat this illness.
He's lovesick.
You heard him.
That's what I have.
Please close the book.
A great physician
is on the way to cure you.
Finally.
Why the fuss in the middle of the night?
- What?
- I heard you haven't been sleeping.
You're working in the main hall
day and night?
Oh, right.
He even came to ask me
to talk some sense into you.
Is that what Dae-chu said?
It looks like he got himself a new lord.
By the way,
if you're here to talk some sense into me,
why are you dressed like that?
What about it?
You look too pretty.
I can't keep my senses around you.
Well,
they did say
it's like a combat suit for women.
Combat?
Did you have a fight?
Who was it this time?
"This time"?
I just said
I was going to meet someone and…
Meet someone?
Meet who?
It doesn't matter.
Why won't you let the royal physician in?
It matters.
Who are you meeting
with such determination?
Excuse me. Are you listening to me?
Yes, I'm listening.
And I've always wanted to.
I guess you weren't.
I was listening to you too.
I had no choice.
What brings you all the way here?
His Highness…
I mean, His Majesty.
His Majesty sent this.
This is my first night in the palace
ever since you left.
After the sudden abdication,
the court has been pretty busy.
I've been meeting with the ministers
to address the neglected state affairs
and stabilize Joseon.
I shall not let this time be wasted
for my people.
I hope this lets you have
a restful night, for once.
This is the second night.
The palace is preparing
for the accession ceremony.
Would Your Majesty consider reinstating
those expelled in the Gyeongo Year?
They keep asking me questions.
I'm realizing that the one
who makes decisions
cannot leave their post even for a moment.
And so,
once again tonight,
I watch the night turn to dawn,
thinking of you.
I can only hope
you sleep soundly tonight.
This is the third night.
This is the fourth night.
This is the fifth night.
Now,
it's the tenth night already.
These days, I look forward to this hour
at day's end, when I count the nights.
Tonight,
the stars shine
brighter than ever.
That must be why.
I have missed you every night,
but tonight,
I miss you more than ever.
Hong Eun-jo.
Are you sure you were listening?
Yes, it's burned into my brain.
You wrote it in every letter
that you missed me and wanted to see me.
I heard that for ten straight days.
So it did reach you.
I thought you never got it
because you didn't reply.
I've been busy with this and that,
just like any other commoner.
Why are you still busy?
So this king worked
day and night for nothing.
Exactly.
You should take this and get some sleep.
I'm not taking it.
We haven't seen each other for so long.
I'll spend the whole night watching you.
I went to the royal pharmacy,
carefully picked these herbs,
and prepared this with all my heart.
Your heart?
You've been to the royal pharmacy?
When our bodies were switched,
I went there several times
to brew a decoction for the Queen Dowager.
I managed to act like a Grand Prince then,
but if we get switched again,
I have to be a king…
I can't do that.
The prisoner has escaped!
Hong Eun-jo.
Did you wake up?
What's wrong?
Did you have a bad dream?
Did we get switched in the dream?
Yes.
You disappeared.
I thought something bad
happened to you again
and I was left alone in your body.
What do you mean…
Come to think of it,
every time we got switched…
We were in mortal danger.
Did you know?
Why didn't you tell me?
Because I didn't want to see this face.
I don't care
how many times we get switched.
Every time it happens,
I'll run to you at once…
until my feet hurt.
This isn't good.
From now on,
I forbid you to hurt your feet.
What? Forbid?
And there's one more.
I forbid you to have bad dreams tonight.
Is there another one?
What is it?
I forbid you to miss me.
What? Why?
It's my feelings.
You must be thirsty.
Here. Drink up.
Answer me.
What?
I drank it.
Now, let's get you to bed.
He knew all along.
He said he wished he were wrong,
and he had to be wrong.
It turned out he was right, though.
If one of you
end up in danger again…
That won't happen.
From now on,
I'll do everything I can
to protect myself.
So…
please protect him.
His Majesty?
That's what I've been doing.
More than I'm paid for.
I really shouldn't be doing
more than I'm paid for.
Come to think of it,
every time we got switched…
We were in mortal danger.
Were we protecting each other?
The last ten days
have been wonderful for me.
Your letters asking after me
brought me joy,
your goodnight wishes warmed my heart,
and hearing that you missed me
gave me comfort.
Tonight,
I will take your longing with me,
so you can sleep peacefully.
And I hope
I will miss you dearly,
deeply,
and for a long time.
I can't stop you, right?
No.
I should go, because I'm offended.
Why don't you at least wait until dawn?
I want it to be tonight.
What are you going to do?
My old resolution.
You ruined everything…
Gil-dong.
Step aside.
Is Hong Eun-jo there?
Something bothered me, so I went to check.
He left this for Your Majesty.
Hong Eun-jo is in danger.
I'm still me.
Try anything foolish,
I'll stab you and kill your mother too.
He must have received my letter by now.
It's Im Sa-hyeong's trap!
I'm the one Im Sa-hyeong is after.
"If you want to save Gil-dong's life,
come alone."
Hong Eun-jo.
Hong Eun-jo!
Subtitle translation by: Sunyoung Baek